you
[Music]
27 years ago audiences were captivated
by a most arresting and original spin on
a TV staple the police drama Steven
Bochco who was already well-known as one
of televisions chief innovators and
re-inventors thanks to high-quality
series like Paris la Law and Doogie
Howser MD co-created NYPD Blue this was
his second reinvention of the genre he
was also responsible for Hill Street
Blues
but in teaming up with David Milch the
envelope was pushed even father
not only would NYPD Blue pioneer agree
to more frenetic storytelling style with
the use of regularly jerky and very very
tight pant held camera it would
challenge long-established broadcast
network limits regarding violence nudity
and fuller to words of course the wrote
for such a disruptive new approach would
not be an easy one with high drama
playing out both among the opposition to
the game-changing series and within its
own ranks before it finally debuted on
ABC on the 22nd of September 1993 here
some of NYPD Blue says mistress and
interest in facts as always only on how
they changed before there was blue along
with a busy movie career that included
frequent collaborations with filmmaker
Brian De Palma France was a familiar
face guesting on television hits and had
become part of barkos recurrent
repertory company having started in the
short-lived baseball drama bait city
blues and played two different roles on
Hill Street Blues one of which was spun
off to headline the one season comedy
Beverly Hills bonds Platt was a frequent
presence in the early and mid career
films of director John Sayles and a
regular in the Canadian series mr.
Vickers starring Don Adams making his
way in Hollywood he continued to land
gas charts on sitcoms dramas and TV
movies including Barker series
including the divorce attorney drama
civil wars and the ill-fated musical
police drama cop Rock meanwhile poverty
brought Brenneman's Korea was just
getting started with toe dips into TV
rose and LA while passionately pursuing
classical and boundary-pushing
theater roles in New York the shared
route a lot of criticism for its content
from the beginning blue tested the
limits of network television decency
it featured frank depictions of
alcoholism in main character detective
Andy super witch offensive language
violence and nudity the American Family
Association took out full-page ads in
major newspapers defining the show and
asking viewers to boycott and many
affiliates refused to pick it up blue
also influenced elbrun Basel 3 to start
the Parents Television Council a United
States censorship advocacy group actors
came and went and sometimes came back
and once again the show had some
infamous departures including David
Caruso who reportedly left to you to pay
despard's and because he wanted to make
movies Jimmy Smits who's Bobby Simone
came in as a replacement for Caruso's
child Kelly left because of the unsaid
antics of writer co-creator David Milch
Andrea Thompson also laughed because of
mulch Sharon Lawrence laughed more than
once because she wasn't satisfied with
his character's development screen time
amy brandman says she was fired Kim
Delaney left to star in a new show
Charlotte Rose left because she had a
baby
Denis France a sipper which was the only
cast member to appear in every episode
Martin's didn't get a first name until
the 12th season even though he was on
the show since the second season IAB
surgeon Martin's played by Scott Alan
Campbell didn't get a first name until
the 12th and final season of the show
his first name is Jerry David Milch had
something in common with superbitch
mulch was considered a genius by his
fellow co-creator Steven Bochco but he
had his demons his procrastination and
last minute on Sat scraped and direction
changes left many cast members
frustrated he revealed later that he was
troubling with alcoholism and drug
addiction during the production melt
eventually cleaned up his act and went
on to create the critically acclaimed
HBO series Deadwood Sharon Lawrence got
married in the same church as her
character lawrence wedded dr. Tom
apostle at the Greek Orthodox Church st.
Sofia Cathedral in Los Angeles the same
church where her character Silva Costas
married Andy Civic Denis France is a
veteran France the son of German
immigrants was drafted into the United
States Army after graduating college
he served eleven months with the 82nd
Airborne Division in Vietnam before he
became an actor he was a baker and a
postal worker because of his physical
appearance he was often typecast as
police officers the station house shares
its face with another classic TV
location the exterior of the fictional
15th precinct station on NYPD Blue is
the same building used to represent the
station house on Kojak in reality it is
the NYPD's ninth precinct located on a
fifth Street
some of the show's sites were built for
a 1960s musical many of the New York
City streets ads were actually filmed on
the 20th Century Fox black lot in Los
Angeles and were originally built for
the Barbara Streisand
musical Hello Dolly Kathy Bates directed
an episode the Missouri actress and
Academy Award winner directed a season
four episode called I Love Lucy Bates
has also directed episodes of homicide
left on the streets Oz Six Feet Under
and Everwood
Stephen barkos dad is in the credits
Marcos father concert violinist Rudolph
Marco is seen playing the violin during
the closing credits it's actually a
special effect a still portrait of
Rudolph was animated over a recorded
track to make the illusion as much as
blue Boyett in recent seasons those
early shocking episodes then his Frances
pasty buttered shower scene
notwithstanding still hold up as the
show's shiniest moments but blue could
have been da-rae before it even hit the
air when the American Family Association
organized a pre broadcast boycott dozens
of ABC affiliates refused to air the
show the move backfired though and in
markets where the show did run viewers
tuned in to see what all the hubbub was
about the spooked stations eventually
came round and NYPD Blue eventually
became both a taupe tank commercial and
a critical success with a total of 82
Emmy nominations over its run NYPD Blue
took what was critic t' about its
beloved predecessor Steven Bochco
long-running series Hill Street Blues on
which blue co-creator David Milch was a
writer and Denis France had not one but
two roles and kept on pushing Dylan out
equal parts talk drama dark humour and
jittery camera moves David Caruso's John
collee and Francis and a civic were at
the center of a small screen
revitalization shattering what viewers
thought network fare was all about and
today TV is what it is because of one
overweight alcoholic cop he's rotating
roster of co-workers and the gritty
grimy and altogether real rules they
inhabit along the way the series helped
to launch the careers of dozens of
actors many of whom went on to star in
their own series from Kim Delaney Philly
and Amy Brenneman
Judging Amy to Sherry string fault
and David Schwimmer France a long string
of characters made their way in and out
of the 15th precinct remember Donna
abandoned Oh sadly the infuriating Greg
mattifies last chance at a good
storyline walked out the door when
shaded but at least she left her hair
behind now proudly worn by the latest
administrative assistant to fill her
seat turn curving characters like Sylvia
Costas lifts an advanced a love talent
Rodriguez James Martinez and Bobby
Simone made way for the final lineup of
mad white giant Clark Rita
artists woodwind Jones Laura Murphy and
left Annibale sure NYPD Blue faltered a
bit in its middle-aged plot screw saggy
characters lay flat Ricky Schroder came
Ricky Schroder went but through it all
it was separate his journey is the one
viewers want to see and happily when the
final credits roll and that's all for
now
don't forget to leave a like subscribe
and share this video with fans take care